coordination of scientific and technological, industrial and military-technical policy, its relation to the domestic or foreign policy of the USA. A key aspect of the American education system is its full integratedness into practical issues of the corporate sector. The education system and corporate sector of the USA are integrated into entire institutional formation dealing with general issues. Universities always have the lead in this system, warning corporations of potential problems with their studies, and train specialists able to solve these problems. It is exactly that particular approach to the arrangement of scientific and educational activity that makes the American system the most powerful and efficient in the world (Lutsenko, 2015). Improvement of procedures and mechanisms of the assessment of the efficiency of implementation of measures of science policy becomes the important course of development of public regulation of scientific sphere in the USA. High priority is assigned to such forms of assessment as international comparisons, pilot studies, and expert review. The exercise of consultations with interested participants of the innovative system is integrated into the mechanism of assessment for the purpose of consensus-building on the issues of science policy. Assessment can be carried out prior to the start of measures implementation, during the process, as well as upon completion of the governmental initiative. Assessment of measures of science policy in the USA is implemented for the purpose of determination of the level of achievement of the desired objective, as well as for the provision of strict control over budget expenditures (Lutsenko, 2015). In other countries where the assessment is carried out on a regular basis, it focuses mainly on substantiation of budget expenditures for research, development, and formation of a general assessment of the efficiency of the whole system of scientific management. In such a case, the objects of assessment may vary, for example, programs, certain technologies, management arrangement, international aspects of the scientific activity, relations between scientific institutions and companies, operational conditions of scientific institutions etc. Series of modernization of the sphere of researches and developments are implemented in the developed countries. Countries of European Community trying to eliminate the available technological inferiority in comparison with the USA work the most actively towards it